== Mixcloud

The Mixcloud gem is a ruby wrapper of the Mixcloud.com API.
It enables you to create Ruby objects of Mixcloud resources such as Cloudcast, Artist, etc. by providing their API urls.

Furthermore, it provides a Search functionality which returns Mixcloud resources as an array of Ruby objects instead of JSON data.
For more info check 
* www.mixcloud.com/developers/documentation/

This gem has not yet been tested with a Rails app. So it is still pretty much a beta. But feel free to test it, use it, drop me a note if you think something needs to be changed or added, or if something isn't quite working.

== Installation

    sudo gem install mixcloud

And then require Mixcloud 
    require 'mixcloud'

    # Examples

    makoto = Mixcloud::User.new('http://api.mixcloud.com/makoto')
    makoto.cloudcasts_url         # => 'http://api.mixcloud.com/makoto/cloudcasts/'

    cinematic_mix = Mixcloud::Cloudcast.new('http://api.mixcloud.com/rico-casazza/cinematic-mix-vol-ii/')
    cinematic_mix.tags            # => ["http://api.mixcloud.com/tag/cinematic/?metadata=1",
                                        "http://api.mixcloud.com/tag/dub-chill-out-downtempo/?metadata=1", 
                                        "http://api.mixcloud.com/tag/soundscape/?metadata=1",
                                        "http://api.mixcloud.com/tag/soundtrack/?metadata=1", 
                                        "http://api.mixcloud.com/tag/trip-hop/?metadata=1"]
== Usage

=== Search functionality

The Mixcloud gem provide a search functionality for the following Mixcloud resources: Artist, Cloudcast, User and Tag.

Say if you are looking for an artist named 'Dorian Concept':

    Mixcloud::Search.find_artist('dorian concept')

It will return an array of Artist objects, all with the words 'dorian concept' in their names. Behind the scenes, Mixcloud::Search builds a query string for you, so you don't have to worry about whitespaces. Same goes for:

    Mixcloud::Search.find_cloudcast('some text')
    Mixcloud::Search.find_user('some text')
    Mixcloud::Search.find_tag('some text')

=== Create Mixcloud Resources

You can create Ruby objects of the following Mixcloud resources: Artist, Category, Cloudcast, Tag, Track and User.
In order to do that, you must provide its API url to the constructor.

==== What do you mean by API url?

Let's say you want to make a ruby object of the user Mary Anne Hobbs, and her public profile is on

    http://www.mixcloud.com/MaryAnneHobbs/

By API url, I mean replacing the 'www' in her URL with 'api', so you get
    http://api.mixcloud.com/MaryAnneHobbs/

Then in your code:

    mary_anne_hobbs = Mixcloud::User.new('http://api.mixcloud.com/MaryAnneHobbs/')

Another note regarding the API url, when you enter the API url in the browser, you will see a bunch of data in JSON. But when you append the API url with '?metadata=1', thus
    'http://api.mixcloud.com/MaryAnneHobbs/?metadata=1'

, then you will see.... well, more useful data.

What you need to know is that the Mixcloud gem automatically append '?=metadata' to the url that you provide to the constructor, so you don't have to do it yourself. But even when you do, you won't break anything.

=== Associations

Certain Mixcloud objects have associations, for example, a Cloudcast belongs to a User.
In most applications, you can call #user_id to retrieve that user.
However, if you look at the Mixcloud API, the identifier is actually an URL. 
So in this gem, you will call

    @cloudcast.user_url

to retrieve the API url of the associated user. It does not return a User object, because I believe that it is a responsibility that belongs to your web-app.
However, by providing you the API url, it does make it easier for you to build that object.

There is one exception to that rule! A Cloudcast has many Sections, but if you look at the Mixcloud API,
it does not treat Section as a resource and they don't have unique URLs. In this case, when you call:

    @cloudcast.sections

For more information regarding associations, check out the documentation below.

== Resources

Most of the methods are named after the JSON data retrieved from the Mixcloud API.
Here is a list of classes and their methods.

=== Category

Mixcloud::Category contains the following:

Instance methods:
    @category.small_picture_url
    @category.large_picture_url
    @category.medium_picture_url
    @category.thumbnail_picture_url
    @category.medium_mobile_picture_url
    @category.userpick_users_url 
    @category.userpick_cloudcasts_url
    @category.users_url
    @category.cloudcasts_url

Instance variables (defined at initialization):
    @name, @format, @public_url, @api_url, @key, @slug

=== Cloudcast

Mixcloud::Cloudcast contains the following:

Instance methods:
    @cloudcast.medium_picture_url
    @cloudcast.extra_large_picture_url
    @cloudcast.large_picture_url
    @cloudcast.small_url
    @cloudcast.medium_mobile_picture_url
    @cloudcast.thumbnail_picture_url
    @cloudcast.listeners_url
    @cloudcast.similar_url
    @cloudcast.favorites_url
    @cloudcast.comments_url
    @cloudcast.sections
    @cloudcast.tag_urls

Instance variables (defined at initialization):
    @listener_count, @name, @public_url, @api_url, @description, @updated_time, @play_count, @comment_count, 
    @percentage_music, @key, @created_time, @audio_length, @slug, @favorite_count, @user_url

Association:
A Cloudcast has many Sections:
    @cloudcast.sections    # returns an array of Section objects. See Section for its attributes
A Cloudcast has many Tags:
    @cloudcast.tag_urls    # returns an array of api-urls of tags (as string) associated with the cloudcast
A Cloudcast belongs to a User:
    @cloudcast.user_url    # returns the api url of the associated user

=== Tag

Mixcloud::Tag contains the following:

Instance methods:

# To return the API url with the most popular, latest, or the hottest cloudcasts with a specific tag
    @tag.popular_url
    @tag.new_url
    @tag.hot_url

Instance variables (defined at initialization):
    @public_url, @api_url, @name, @key

=== Track

Mixcloud::Track contains the following:

Instance methods:
# To return the API url with the most popular, latest, or the hottest cloudcasts featuring a specific track
    @track.popular_url
    @track.new_url
    @track.hot_url

Instance variables (defined at initialization):
    @public_url, @api_url, @name, @key, @slug, @artist_url

Associations:
A Track belongs to an Artist:
    @track.artist_url     # returns the api url of the associated artist

=== User

Mixcloud::User contains the following:

Instance methods:
    @user.medium_picture_url
    @user.extra_large_picture_url
    @user.large_picture_url
    @user.small_url
    @user.medium_mobile_picture_url
    @user.thumbnail_picture_url
    @user.feed_url
    @user.playlists_url
    @user.comments_url
    @user.followers_url
    @user.favorites_url
    @user.following_url
    @user.cloudcasts_url
    @user.listens_url

Instance variables (defined at initialization):
    @username, @name, @cloudcast_count, @following_count, @public_url, @api_url, @listen_count, @key,
    @follower_count, @favorite_count, @updated_time, @created_time, @city, @biog, @country

=== Search

Mixcloud::Search contains the following:

Class methods:
    Mixcloud::Seach.find_cloudcast(string)
    Mixcloud::Seach.find_user(string)
    Mixcloud::Seach.find_tag(string)


=== Section

Mixcloud::Section contains the following:

When you call

    @cloudcast.sections

, it creates an array of Sections. Each section has the instance variables defined:

    @track_url, @position, @start_time, @section_type

== License

Copyright © 2012 Alex Fong. Release under MIT license. See the attached License file.
